The kind of last of the many different
kinds of use cases that we've been just
chatting about over the course of our
time together which is like just how hard
it is to show a loading indicator when
you think about the edge cases, right?
If it's your first loading indicator,
yeah I show the loading indicator and
then I take it down.
All right it's one of those things where
it's like a fast API is almost the bane of
your existence when it comes to
implementing a loading indicator, right?
Because what you don't want is
like a flash of sadness, right?
Where especially cuz the thing
I work on the portal now,
is we have two versions we
have a cloud version and
we have a open source version
you run locally on your machine.
We tell you about network latency
when it's running on your machine.
Real fast let me tell you it's
the same UI for both right and so
dealing with the idea that you
could have a normal API and
then a lightning fast API creates
a certain number of problems.
So, what we're gonna try to do here
is we're going to kinda create a fake
API response that we can kind of control
via this number of milliseconds.
We will choose when we want to show a
loading indicator cuz again, if it's back
real fast, we don't immediately show
one then immediately take it down.
All right, that's the first edge case.
So you wanna deal with
the loading indicator.
The second one is you can by solving for
the I only wanna show the loading
indicator if things have been loading for
a second, you introduce a new problem.
Which is you've just moved your problem
forward in time, which is what happens if
you show the loading indicator
after 1,000 milliseconds.
And the data comes back
1,001 milliseconds, right?
You're back to your flash of sadness.
Sometimes, what we should
do in this case is we lie.
We lie to our users,
we say it's still loading just simply so
that we don't flash things and make them
uncomfortable, maybe we'll keep it up for
what seems just a little, maybe can
start loading the data if you want.
But like don't just flash and
take it down, be gentle with it.
So we have the ability for
how long it should take,
how long we wanna wait until we
show a loading indicator and
how long that loading indicator
should be up for, right?
And again, a lot of this is based
on the feeling basically you for
these values, you tend to adjust
them until everyone is happy.
But yeah, there's no hard and
fast rule, but I'm also not a designer.
So we've got the three fields,
we've got whether or
not we should show a loading indicator,
we've got the form itself and
we've got this little
fake fetch data which
I'll show you real quick.
It looks at the response time,
it logs that it's fetching,
it waits however long our fake API
request is supposed to wait, and
then it just logs to console that it's
done and then it completes, right?
There's no actual data
to show in this case.
I could also map it to some fake data if
I really wanted to, but this is basically
it simulates something that takes however
long we have in that top input field.
Show loading takes the shows you this
really neat loading indicator or
nothing at all.
I'm basically in this case, making sure
we don't accidentally submit the form.
And then we've got some cached pieces.
All right, so let's start with
just the simplest version of this,
just to make sure everything
works as we expect.
So we'll say loading.
We'll see say that is from the event
when they form, submit and
when that happens, pipe it,
will tap show loading is true.
Just verify that everything
works as expected.
I put a semicolon in there,
when should be a comma.
I will say loading.subscribe.
I tend to write the domination
in the tab because then like,
I'm not all the things that happen are
contained in there, it's not like cool.
Everything happens, like you're
putting it there taken down but
then the last thing happens subscribe.
I don't wanna deal with that.
So, we'll say subscribe and
now this should when I hit the button.
Let's see.
Here we go shows loading indicator and
this also logs that we're not loading.
So now, what we wanna do is show it,
load our data, take it down, right?
That's the kinda next
obvious thing to do here.
So, we'll show it, And
then in this case,
because I was robbed of using an exhaust
map in the last example,
I'm gonna use my exhaust map.
Mostly because this is also a fake
situation where they slam on that button,
let's see what the time, so
let's start a new one over again.
Why someone would slam on a button
in this case, I don't know.
But we'll do that.
So we'll see an exhaust map where
we will return fetching the data.
I could probably do that in line as well.
But we're gonna play around
with it a little bit.
So we'll show the data, we will show
the loading, we'll fetch our data and
then we will all take down
a loading indicator, right.
Again this is a naive version for now, and
we'll deal with all
the edge cases shortly.
All right so then,
show loading, False, okay.
Like this should do the thing.
Fetching for five seconds and
that takes it down.
That works for the happy path, right?
When your requests all take five sec,
I can't believe I just
called that the happy path.
When your API's all take at least five,
listen, we've all worked API.
So take 30 seconds,
don't act like you haven't.
But even sometimes what I would do for
an API that took five seconds,
even though it's suboptimal.
Okay, like that's cool, but like,
what if we wanna delay that
we talked about like delay in that
loading indicator a little bit.
And so
what would that look like in this case?
Well, there's a few ways
that we could do it.
We could create like
an observable.
And like sometimes if I just wanna delay
something and tap I could timer it.
I'm just gonna create one real quick and
then five but
I couldn't even yeah would
complete at that point.
Let's not deviate right now, will delay
it for whatever show loadings value is.
And then we will tap.
So this one will get it and
it will basically delay for
that amount of time and
then it will show it.
So what would this look like?
Well, now what we could do
is this an exhaust map.
What we could say is,
Can cut, my show loading.
And then we'll go fetch the data.
Now, what do you think
the problem is here?
We're basically show
the loading after a second and
then we're gonna go fetch the data, right?
So this is building towards the answers
to our problems, but it's not.
It's not there just yet.
So wait a second.
Cuz then we immediately take that off for
a second.
We could do is cut it.
Well let's make a high loading.
Right this is not gonna work as we expect.
We'll talk about that in a second.
I mean, it was gonna work as we expect,
it's not gonna work.
So we wanna do is concatenate show it,
fetch the data, hide it.
These are delayed so we're gonna need to
do is figure out the kind of the different
situations that we need to deal with okay
like what happens if the data comes back
before we even show
the loading indicator right?
We're gonna need to time some of these and
all like let's do a spoiler alert,
do we have a operator that sees
which one of these things does
the thing first, brace, right?
So that will ultimately be
a thing that we look at.
But let's see it in its
not great state first
shows up every second we
fetch that is back and
we have to call that false.
>> And then I think that on
the show loading needs to be true.
>> Yep, I was talking and typing at the
same time and swap those the wrong way.
Cool, shows it fetches gets
the data back takes it down,
like not terrible, but
the idea that we even delayed for
a second before fetching the data,
that's one way to lie to your users.
We try to lie gently, we don't like tell
egregious lies that hinder performance,
we're just trying to protect them.